Previously, I've challenged you to use the eggTimes dictionary to print out the hardness that was selected
by the user. To solve this challenge,
we will combine our knowledge of working with both dictionaries as well as optionals. In order to solve
this challenge,
all we had to do was simply, inside our print statement, add the eggTimes dictionary, and then use the
square brackets to tap into the eggTime that we want depending on the hardness that was chosen by the
user.
So in this case, we know that our sender.currentTitle can only be one of three values: Soft, Medium,
or Hard.
So if we match these with the keys in our dictionary, then we'd be able to retrieve each of these values.
So we could simply write eggTimes, and then we could add our hardness in here as the key.
Now, even though our code seems to work, we get a error from Xcode. And it tells us that "Value of optional
type 'String?' must be unwrapped to a value of type 'String,'" In order to solve this,
they give us five ways of fixing it.
And the reason is because the sender.currentTitle is something that is a bit of a unknown, right?
You might have a button which triggers this IBAction where it doesn't actually have a title. Well, in
which case, sender.currentTitle would be equal to nil.
So then if you have a nil value that you put in here that you try to retrieve from your eggTime dictionary,
well, then it doesn't know which one to give you, right?
Nil is not Soft, Medium, or Hard,
so then we end up with a error
down the line and our app would crash.
So to prevent this, the sender.currentTitle has a different data type.
So you hold down option and you click on it,
you can see that it's data type is a string question mark which is what we call an optional string.
So the reason why it's optional is because you could have a button that doesn't, in fact, have
a currentTitle,
so the currentTitle could legitimately not exist. But, of course, in order to use it inside our dictionary
because all of our dictionary keys are, in fact, pretty solid strings, right?
They're not optional strings.
Well, then we have to convert this hardness which comes from sender.currentTitle into a nonoptional.
One way of doing that, as you might have seen before
when we use the code from StackOverflow to play sound, we added a exclamation mark at the end of
sender.currentTitle. So this essentially says that "Yes, I am the human programmer. I know better than you,
Xcode.
I know that all three buttons which are linked to my IBAction, so all of the senders will always have
a current title and this will never fail.
It'll never crash in the future.
Don't worry about it."
So now if we go ahead and run our app, you can see that it actually lets us run the app because errors
will stop the app from running, but warnings will not.
So if we now click on each of our buttons, you can see that we get an optional printed.
I know it seems like we just unwrapped the sender.currentTitle. So why are we seeing an optional again?
Well, this optional doesn't have anything to do with sender.currentTitle,
instead, it has something to do with how dictionaries work in Swift.
Now why is that?
Why are we getting an optional out of our dictionary?
Well, our dictionary has keys which are of string data types.
So let's say that we try to retrieve 5, the value 5 out of our eggTime dictionary.
Well, I could simply provide the key "Soft," right?
And when this is printed, we would get 5.
But what if I had made a typo in this? Because it's a string, right,
nobody's going to check whether 5 typed it correctly or not.
Well, in that case, the soft with a lowercase "s" doesn't actually exist in this dictionary as a key.
So then this result would end up being nil. So if I run this right now and if I press on any of the buttons,
all I will get is nil because it can't find anything with the key "soft" in this eggTime dictionary.
So that's why when you provide a key as a piece of text to retrieve an item out of a dictionary, the
end result will be a optional.
And I can show you that if I say, let result = eggTimes, and if I hold an option and click on result,
you can see that the result is actually an optional integer.
So it's trying to grab an integer out of our dictionary, but it doesn't know if we'll definitely be able
to find one using this key.
Then the result becomes an optional.
So if we wanted to not be an optional, then we could, of course, hit the exclamation mark.
And in fact, if we were using the hardness value which comes from our button titles, then we know that
they are for sure spelt correctly because we can see them right here and we can match the spelling of
the Soft, Medium, Hard with these three keys.
So in that case, then we can be pretty sure that this result,
so retrieving an item out of our dictionary is definitely not going to fail ever,
then we can add an exclamation mark at the end.
And if we now print our results which has been what we would call unwrapped, then you'll see that instead
of getting an optional integer, we actually get a actual integer.